So far in our blog post application anyone can do anything anyone can edit delete posts or even add
new ones.
So obviously at one point in time you will need some kind of user accounts inside your application.
So let's see how we can easily set that up in Lavell and it is actually extremely easy.
So let's go to the Visual Studio code.
So first thing you might have noticed is that we already had the User model when we created a new application
so it was created with Lara Vo.
Also there is migration already created for the user stable for our user model and also we are covered
in the controllers department as there is an out folder with five controllers which were created when
we just created a new layer of application.
So let's see how we can easily set this up and just start using authentication system inside our larval
application.
Now let's recap what we already have so we have the User model.
We have the migration for it.
We have controllers and we also have some middleware that will let us check if the user is later authenticated
on some different pages.
But we do not have the routes defined for those controllers and we also don't have some necessary views
like for example the view to let the users register and logging now lovable also gives us a helping
hand with that as it contains an artisan command which will generate the views all the necessary reviews
for authentication system and it will also set up the routes for us but before I run this command I
need you to know that I do not want you to run this command.
Right now I will only show you what will get generated by it but it can override some of the files we
already have like the home controller and the home view.
And if your project is not under any version control like gate you might have some trouble resetting
it to the previous state.
So the command is make out.
So remember Do not run it.
I will only show you what we get out of running this command now as you see it found that we already
have a home blade BHP view and it asks me if I would like to replace it.
So I will just say yes for now and let's see what we get generated.
Now let's take a look what happens when we will visit the larval test.
So we are being redirected to the log in page and we see that we have a logging form and also layout
changed a little bit and this is because the lateral has generated some of those views which some of
them also replaced our home controller and the whole view.
So this is how the home controller looks like now of course we shouldn't run this command.
I'm only showing you what will it generate for us and we'll write up our selves anyway to explain it
better.
Now we have the home controller.
You can see that we have added constructor or Lavell has added a constructor for this class and constructor
is one of the places where you can register a middleware for this specific controller.
So as you remember when we talked or mentioned middleware because we haven't talked about it in detail
yet middle worse are these classes that you can add that can do something before a request or after
a request and that is one of the middle worst that will do something before the request and you might
have noticed that it registers this middleware for this whole controller.
So for every action of this controller using the elf name and there isn't a middleware with this class
name inside our HDP middleware folder.
And that's because it is being configured inside the kernel kernel is also our class of our application.
You can find it inside HDP.
Now there is a field called Root middleware.
And as the description says it's the application root middleware.
So here is the definition of this alliances.
So the South is actually pointing to our up HDP middleware our tentacle class which itself looks pretty
simple but it extends the base class from Lara.
So this Middleware is part of our project.
But this class that it extends the authentic eight class is in the vendor libraries of Lavell.
So if we go to this class by the way to go to a class you can just simply point over the class name
with that out pressed and click on it and the visual studio code will direct you to this class.
Now what this class does is you can see the handle method.
So if you remember from our previous lectures this is before middleware.
So let's see how that looks.
So the before Middleware is basically a class that will have this handle method with request and the
closure next to call and then next middleware that might be registered and it is doing something before
that request is being handled only to call to next will actually pass this load to your controller.
So as you can see it tries to call that authenticate method before it gets to the controller.
And here is the authentic method.
So it is using a Guard component which will get to in a bit to verify if you are authenticate it.
OK this is pretty complicated.
It might be but we'll explain that in detail in a bit so don't worry about that.
Just so you know that by using this middleware which that alliance is given inside the kernel you are
basically requiring authentication for all the actions in this particular controller.
So if we would like to give a quick example and check the post controller we would only like probably
to specify and that certain actions need authentication.
That would probably be star.
So when someone wants to other blog posts he should have an account.
We'll see how to do it for separate actions.
But just later.
Now let's get to the basics.
So we have this middleware out.
And now you could see that this middleware has this redirect to method.
And if you are not authenticated then this method is called and you can see that it redirects to the
root and the root is specified as logging.
So let's open the terminal and run command that we should know which is speech Auntie's on the route
least.
And now you can notice that there are a couple of routes that we haven't had before we have an added
it ourselves.
And this is for example logging which you can see goes directly to the show logging form action of the
logging controller which happens to be part of our application because it was generated when we created
a new lava project.
There is also the post logging action which is responsible for actually trying to log you in.
They are actually the user which would send the forum with logging and password.
So where did that get from.
Of course every route that we add should be added to the routes web BHP.
So let's open that and you can see that those are our definitions that we have added before.
And here's the thing responsible for those routes that our Earth class static routes method.
It will out all the routes responsible for authentication of course you do not really have to use all
that you can define the routes yourself manually as we did here.
But it's just you know it's saving us some time if we would like to go with how Lavell is proposing
us to handle authentication we can save time and to use it just out of the box.
But of course you are free to generate your own logging controllers registration controllers and views
and do it your own way.
Now to verify that this is actually adding the routes Let's rerun the aunties on the route least so
we can see the non actions responsible for registering or logged logging in.
So this is what it does.
So it registers those routes.
Now let's go back so we were talking about this middleware.
So as you can see this is the redirect to methods that you can modify here where you would like to move
your users when they are not authenticated.
So we want them to go to the logging page which basically is this one.
So show logging form.
Of course we can configure this as we wish.
So we are opening this authenticate class and now to know how does it actually know it should call this
redirect to method it is actually here.
So when out integration fails it will actually call this method.
So it will try to redirect you to the page or to the root which would be returned from that this redirect
to.
So since this class is being extended by our middleware we are just simply overriding the redirect to
which should be somewhere here.
Yes it is here but it's empty.
And you can see that it is protected.
So it is not publicly accessible but can be extend that in the class that is extending this base out
integrated class and so is our middleware authenticate doing.
And it is it has also a single simple check that when e it doesn't send back the Jason or it doesn't
expect the Jason because in case of the API we do not want to do redirects it doesn't work that way.
In case of the API we will just return an error back to the user but in the case of a tradition druthers
channel application when we send a forum or visit a page we would like to redirect to the log in page.
OK.
So this is how we can secure a page.
So like the basics of securing a page of course I understand that it might not be entirely clear especially
that we haven't written in the media where our our self sits.
So you might not really feel how that actually works but we will get into details of that.
And I need I need you to stay with me for a couple of next lectures when I will go step by step on how
don't take authentication and registration works and then we'll go on to implementing it ourselves.
And further Fung explaining the further functionalities of their Larrabee authentication system and
how the Guard component works.
So stay tuned.
We'll be explaining that in the couple of the next lectures.